And you see my screen? &gt;&gt; I can see your screen. &gt;&gt; So great. VPN is working. &gt;&gt; Awesome. So let us start with the workshop number four for the France zone buildathon. Today we'll have Kirk and Mano um that will guide us through the performance optimization and VFX. This is the third workshop that we are doing and the last one for this builder fun. You will find all the recordings on YouTube and you will find the recaps on the firm. So if you get any questions feel free to visit us and the central discord. Great. So very happy to be here. Thank you Toxy for the space. So today we are going to talk the last workshop the workshop number four performance optimization and BVX. So today the idea is to get your scenes actually run well on on phones and that's where most people will see your work now. So we are going to measure in a real Android phone not using an emulator not guessing and we are going to optimize any scene. So just to do a brief recap, this is the the for the last workshop of the form. You can check on Twitter and on the on discord that we have al already published the creator hub with Nikico the building for mobile with Gabriel and me the mobile UX and contra customization with Ael Lean Ellie and Sea. And now we are going to go with the last one the performance and optimization BX. So stay there and check it check it out. So any question that you have uh please ask. We have the slido scan the QR code right from your spawn or if you prefer uh to ask in Discord feel free to ask any question that you want. So let's start. So basically what what did you what we did? We built one scene and we made it deliberately terrible. Then we fix it we fix it in a stage. So the idea here is like we do a very very big dungeon and and the idea is to try to optimize over a few iterations. H we are going to do four iteration and we will explain what optimization we are doing in each iteration. So you have this open source. You can see the PRs. We have four PRs that you can check and lately we are going to speak a bit about the server side optimization pass that is like version five. We can mention and remember that the central runes in your pocket now. So your scene will be judged on the on our cell phone. So the performance is key here. So why performance hits harder on mobile? So this a bit an explanation about what happens. So mobile mo phone is not a laptop. It's a different machine a different architecture. So there is no separate graphic memory. So the the the CPU memory and the GPU memory are shared in the phone. So it's just one and your texture will compete the user with other application RAM and other things. And also the the phones throttles a a lot the performance depending if it's heating up or not. So the the transparency also is brutal on phone GPUs. So if you use any material with transparencies it will be worse on in mobile. And basically that's it here you you have some key points the battery and the bandwidth. Remember also that we you are going to use a 4G connection or a mobile connection maybe in the bus and maybe it could be a bit in unstable. So prepare for those scenarios. Um well that's it. Then we have also we created a feature that is seen stats. So there's here's the table from the official documentation. So the these are the limits that we set up. There are it says warning and block. You can overpass these limits but the performance is going to be a lot worse if you don't respect this limit. So it's more than a guide than than being like required totally. So you can see on the right how it looks inside the preview mode when you are seeing any scene and basically will be great if you have a happy green uh for example here the performance the colliders are too much sometimes and also the draw calls is terrible in this scene. So here you can have like a a visual stats of what is the performance of your scene. So the first thing that you need to do is measure your scene right now. So just fresh app launch scan. When you scan the QR code, you can see the stats icon. You open the stat icon and you will see the scene limits. Here's the photo of that on the right. And also h the scroll panel is you can scroll now we we refactor a bit this h this panel and you can scroll below and see all the stuff. So going back to the scenario that we are going to optimize. So this is a very huge scene with 36 rooms. We created like a dion that we have a preview that you can see in first person third person. H we did five anti patterns on purpose there. So we can fix them on the PRs. So H there scenario also has like four wings. So we have different pirates and it's copied in different places and you will see the all the stuff there. So let me check how to play the video. So here we can see the the scene. I don't know you are seeing the the yes so you can see that this is this is the version zero that we said that is the un non optimized and here you can see that uh we go that the scene is totally red on all almost all the aspect so nothing touch we are going to work from here here the scene that you can explore here you have the top down and you can see how it's loading everything and has all the asset loaded at once. So it's using a lot of materials. It's using a lot of colliders that are not required and a lot of things that we are going to optimize. So passing the microphone for Manu for presenting this optimization. I don't know if you want to talk something about this and it &gt;&gt; thank you mate. Um, first of all, a disclaimer. The the performance optimization is it's an art form. You can do it as long as you can and you every time you think you're finished, you can find another way to optimize it. And the limit is a soft limit. You you have to set it up. Like you can start sacrificing features and visual fidelity for performance. So uh optimizing has no limits. That's the the disclaimer. So what we're looking right now is the an optimized scene. As M said, as Kuruk said, sorry. It has all the typical problems. Bad collisions, duplicated materials, duplicated meshes, h bad design all around. H it barely runs, but it runs. That's a good surprise. It it filled me filled me with pride because I I did lots of the optimizations on the mobile client. So that's a good one. So how can we improve this? H the the first thing that jumps into my face is the assets. So we will do an asset pass. H we can start the duplicating all the the materials the the shvs directly. There are 136 bite identical copies that we can remove directly and use the the originals. H we can reduce texture sizes by compressing them to one uh 20 10 24 that's what the client will finally use because uh the processor of the of the assets when you publish the scene will get the textures and reduce their sizes. So why would we upload a 4K texture when we will see at 2024 right the problem that we are trying to resolve here is the loading times and the asset count we don't need to download 136 copies of the same things right so here we can see the the asset pass live in the in the scene metrics. What we can see is textures and geometries went down, but everything else still red. You know, we can keep optimizing. We reduce the memory to 2 GB and the performance is improving, but there's still much room left to improve. So, geometry, how do you fix geometry? Well, it's most mostly the same. We have a model system originally where we have well parts surrounding the rooms. So, we can merge every wall, every floor, every ceiling into a single shield per room. We get 2,00 2,500 into 70. Some code fixes. We did some throttles. We have some systems that execute every frame. We don't need every system executing every frame. We can do accumulators. We can count frames. So we can execute once then skip skip execute skip skip execute. And we have free performance you know. Um the the cosmail the classic cosmail of allocating inside a loop. That's a problem. You are going to have boundless memory. And finally, we added a trick that the scene knows in which room you are. So it only renders it only sets the visibility to true in your own room and visible rooms. So that will reduce geometry being rendered and gives us some frames. You can see the entity going down a lot. A a little bit of the geometry and more performance. But still we have a lot of triangles, a lot of meshes, a lot of materials, a lot of colliders. We are still missing our final optimizations, but it's an improvement. There's also on this video something I don't know like it looks like it stopped maybe corrupted. There's a moment when we step over there there we step over that helmetry and we can see the the the performance go down a lot that this is a typical problem with complex geometry use it as collisions. We will see that on before. So, uh, another fix that is a bit more advanced that we did for this scene that is typical that is that you don't need to have everything loaded up front. You can load what's needed at the start of the scene and keep loading the scene as things be become needed. When things ain't needed anymore, we can unload them. So, we did that. That's the streaming. We we load only the the nine room island around the player and when the player moves to another island, we unload the the last one and we load the next one. This gives us a huge gain because we don't have almost a sixth of the scenes loaded all the as loaded a sixth of everything. So more headroom for scripts, more headroom for better graphics, better FPS, better everything. But things are not perfect yet. If we go and step on the devil collisions that we have here, we can see the performance tanks. Again, this is something that's tricky because sometimes you you can have a scene perfectly optimized, but because of one single mesh hidden somewhere in the scene, you can have a terrible user experience because every player bumps into that that minimal rock and their performance tanks, their app crashes. It's everything is sad. So we have to be very careful with the collisions and fix our meshes. That's the next optimization before we should be prioritizing using box primitives. We in this case replace every collision with box primitives. Of course you don't have to be this extreme. This is a lab scene. It's a thing for the workshop only because sometimes you need collisions that are different than a box. But as a as the outer you can do you can separate collisions from meshes and do collisions very simple boxes axis aligned. Perfect for almost every case and really cheap for the performance and decorative props. small props, no collision, pre lots of per performance gains. So we can see the final the final video. Now &gt;&gt; I would like to add one time that we were debugging an scene and we saw one tree that was destroying the performance because each leaf has its own collider. So it was destroying totally the performance of the tenant just because of the leaf. So that's one example. &gt;&gt; Yes, it's it's tricky because you think you you have it all and and one flag on one mesh on one corner of the level might destroy your performance because of physics, you know. So the video has some the time before because I started recording and a little back. So you can see the the the the mesh that was destroying everything working correctly now. And also this shows you the the the loading dynamic. So these were small tricks that we did on an experimental scene for a workshop. So trying to optimize a scene, it's way harder than this. You have to take into account your needed systems, your needed geometry, your needed assets. But we hope that this give you ideas. So in order to attack your scene problems, you know, it's not an easy task. It's but it's it's worth it. You know, people won't play a scene that works bad. And from the client side we can do so much. We do a lot once you publish your scene. We do a lot of optimizations. We create level of details of every mesh. So we can deploy more optimized things because in the live game there are other systems fighting for the performance. you know the multiplay the the sync between multiple avatars the chat the friend system what what not there are multiple system fighting for the performance we need to reduce the graphics bett to a minimum and the graphics cost as well that's why we have a server side optimization so when you publish you'll have better performance that you ect. Finally, as a side note, we didn't talk much about BFX, but uh it comes with the same stuff. You know, uh we are talking about optimization and low buds. That means that our VFX will have to be thought profound profoundly about this. You know, uh don't overuse lights. Erh, use emission on materials. Erh, little to no particles or low amount particles. Use UV tricks to to make m make more with what you have. You know, h particles animated particles can be a low count and a huge effect. Erh so that be mindful uh everything has a cost so when you don't need it don't use it you know that's my my memo so finally the the numbers if you want to read m you're welcome &gt;&gt; so after all the optimization from manu thank you manu for for sharing with us basimization. So here are the final results that we did in a Motorola H60 Pro. So we started on the first scene on optimized. You can see that a lot of triangles, a lot of entity all a lot of everything and the performance was hitting in high in 20 FPS or 33% almost. So after the improvements we finish with a very good number that is acceptable. We reduces more than 70% of all the triangles no 90% of all the entities and so on and so on and we improved the performance almost twice a bit more than twice so I think those are great results. So this is are the optimization that we thought for this pres this workshop. I would love to hear from you what are the optimization that you usually do on any scene and what is working well for you. So after this workshop will be great to share and everyone can share the knowledge and we can do better scenes and more performance. So here I I like to use some homework. So check your scenes. H execute your scene. See how this performing. See the scene stats. How the performance percentage is reading on high. Try to put on high because we have a system on the on the mobile phone that adapts by default. that adapts the performance depending on the on the device and depending on how much frame rate you have and how heat your phone is. So if if the phone is hitting too much is going to reduce the graphic profile. You can enforce of course this profile and being too high and there you will see your scene on the maximum graphics possible on mobile. So here's the task. Erh I I invite everyone to do this. So ending uh to the final uh quick uh reminder to three things measure on real device before trusting anything. So mobile budget are the limits no suggestions and how you load beats how polished and any single asset is. So that's it. Um I open it for questions. So thank you very much for hearing this this workshop and please uh scan the QR code for seeing the slido or code your with your questions on the on the discord. So floor is open. So I know if you want to share the slido. &gt;&gt; Yeah, let me share the slido. Thank you very much um Manu and Kurrick for this. Everyone, we dropped the slido everywhere. So, please feel free to hit us with the questions. So far, I can't see any questions here. So, but let me still share the slider. I'm interesting on knowing how which optimization you did on your scene. So if you can put that in the discord or in the scene like Bessa said Nikico 16 gigas is not a good option. &gt;&gt; Hi Nico how are you? &gt;&gt; Thanks for inviting me in. I just want to mention a couple of things that that I use or that I I know that the foundation content team uses. One is this tool called the scene optimizer. Let me copy it in the chat. Um that is a fairly nice tool because it it's, you know, quite automatic. It's not necessarily, you know, doesn't cover everything, but it does take care of some things like removing unused textures, making sure that textures don't exceed a maximum size and things like that. So, it's a nice way to like run a whole lot of assets through it and quickly make sure that they they don't none of them exceed certain limits. &gt;&gt; Um, it also takes care of a duplicates, I think. &gt;&gt; Um, &gt;&gt; resource. Yes. And the other thing is something that we we recently added. This is not in the mobile but it's you know optimizing the scene overall to run everywhere that when you run the um Unity the desktop explorer with um the MCP you can ask the AI like a lot more detail not just you know how many triangles are being used and all that but specifically what entities are you know rendering the most triangles or the most materials at this point in time and even ask the AI to like teleport the player from position to position random randomly and see how many triangles are being rendered at that point in time and with that you know find where the like worst points are. I think that's also a very nice nice flow. &gt;&gt; Yes. Yes. Yes. That's something we we missed in the in the slides and nowadays with the AI tools automation is getting easier and easier. Some time ago it was some of the hardest work you you have to do in video games but today you have these tools you have the you can like connect your AI to the proper game and ask it questions like Nico said it's it's really helpful really helpful yes and also about the feature that Unity have the desktop client has the MCB we are working on mobile for having the same So hope that in the next versions we it will be there also. So I think there is no question everyone has in there seems very optimized. It looks like &gt;&gt; we hope we hope I mean we will see. So these workshops are also of course being shared as a recording and as a recap. So I could imagine that many right now just watched getting a little bit of a feeling for optimization and I'm pretty sure you will see some clicks on the workshop recording. So for everyone if you have missed one of the workshops that we had already done please feel free to reach out if you don't find them but they are quite prominent on YouTube also the recaps on the forum are getting shared kind of everywhere so please let us know if you need anything else and if you get some questions maybe re-watching or reading the recap please feel free to join us in the central friend zone channel on the central discord. I'm going to drop it here for everyone that is with us right now on Discord. And for everyone that is on YouTube, you will find an invitation to the central discord in the description. And shout out to everyone that's watching on X. Thank you very very much. I hope you had fun learning a little bit about optimization. Kirk, you said so many nice things that I will use in the next few days on our socials. I really loved it. Um, so then maybe let's if there are no questions anymore. I don't see them in world. I don't see them on Slido. Don't see them on Discord. Maybe everyone sharing their best tip now. And then we close down. What do you think, Mano? Nico Kirk. &gt;&gt; Yes. So I think if you have any question for later please ask on the pre priansson channel and we will be happy for answering. Yes. Uh I I have a final best tip. Always measure first. That's it. Measure. Measure. Measure them first. first week and only measure. &gt;&gt; Great. &gt;&gt; Sheesh. Okay, I think everyone knows now hopefully how to optimize on mobile. But if there are any open questions or maybe you find some friction points while trying to optimize your experience, please let us know. We would really love to see where you may be struggling so that we can adjust just our communication, maybe adjust a little bit the docs, whatever. really reach out to us and let us know. And much thanks for everyone that already has done this. So, I think we're now starting in hopefully a weekend full of build mode because the hackathon and I'm sorry, the buildathon is running for 13 more days. We already have 120 registered hackers on our hacks. For everyone that hasn't registered yet, please feel free to do so. you will receive um all the updates occurring the next two weeks. Also, you will have access to very very nice resources that we're sharing there. And yeah, beside that, I wish everyone a nice weekend and happy building. Thank you very much for your attention and bye &gt;&gt; everyone. Bye guys. Great presentation.